One of the basic perspectives
of financial statements analysis,
basically one of the most important
analyses that is always done
is the margin, the margin
on sales.
Whenever you talk about a business,
it's one of the first things
that comes to your mind.
What is the margin?
Let us define the concept.
The margin is the percentage of sales
that is converted into profit.
As we will see, there are different
sizes of margin.
Why is it so interesting?
Well, because it is a very interesting
analysis because in addition to
that it is very relatively easy
to do, it provides us with
quite valuable information and
I will put an example that is too
simplistic, but we will put ourselves
in the situation that they talk
about a business that has a
margin of 45%, that is, 45%
of sales become avoidable.
It is a fact that at first is very
representative of being a
very healthy business, that
they are probably doing things
very well, have a strong competitive
advantage or are very cost
efficient, etc.
With this in mind, the business
is quite interesting.
Let's see how the margin is calculated.
I agree with the results.
Remember that there are different
sizes of benefits.
As we go down and we are resting
different spending parts,
the results state informs us of
different magnitudes, which
have different meanings.
Above we have the gross margin
in which only what we have
deducted is the cost of sales.
We go down and we deduct
structural expenses like personnel
and other expenses and
we have the avoid.
If the deduction is also the amortization,
we have the evit.
Remember that the avoid and the
avoid are the magnitude of profit
that inform us of the operating
profit, of what are the results
of the operational activity,
of the economic activity
of the company, regardless
of how you have been financed.
Because if we continue to go down
and cut interest on the debt,
what we have is the gross
profit.
We have already considered
what it is, what our financial
structure is.
If we also pay the tax,
we have the result.
Perfect, for now what we're going
to do, what we can do is calculate
the margin for each of those
magnitudes.
We have the gross margin that
we divide the gross margin between
sales, the margin avoids, the margin
avoids between sales, the margin avoids
and finally the net margin.
By the way, I want you to keep in
mind one thing, remember this concept,
is to normalize.
I mean normalization.
Imagine that we are comparing two
companies and we are comparing the
avoid margin of two companies in a
particular year.
In many cases, it is possible
that seasonal or punctual
circumstances cause us to
compare pears with apples.
Why is?
Imagine that one of the companies
for a year has had to face
a very high cost of dismissals,
because it has had to affect
the margin avoids.
Therefore, we must make an
effort to identify all those
effects that are punctual
and are not directly,
not sustainable,
not directly related
to the activity of
the company.
You already know what are
the magnitudes of margin, gross
margin, avoid margin, avoid margin,
net margin and now the question
is, which one will be used
in one case or another?
There is no direct answer to
that.
It is important that you understand
well that each of them informs
us and apply it to the different
analyses based on the sector
we are analyzing, the business
we are analyzing.
I will give you an example.
We think we're looking at a clothing
store.
How does a clothing store work?
very simple though.
Buy a commodity that is clothing
and sell it back and apply a markup,
that is, imagine that you buy
the commodity and apply it
and sell it back for two, two and
a half or three times more than
you bought it.
And with that it generates a gross
margin and with that gross margin
it has to pay the costs that are
lower in the result account such
as the structure costs of the rental
of the local and the costs
of the salaries and salaries
of employees.
So what margin or ratio would
a store analyze?
I would analyze the margin.
It is very important because the
costs in every store and here where
it is played, where is it?
In that markup, in the ability
to apply a margin to all the sales
you're doing, in addition to the
rotation of the goods, that's another
topic that we'll analyze
in another class.
Or let's think, for example, of a
business like Tulotero.
In a business like Tulotero
is also very interesting at gross
margin.
You think that in any marketplace
you trade a lot of millions
and the goal of the marketplace
is, on that money that
is traded, to stay as
much as possible.
Maximise the gross margin.
Why is?
The cost structure below
is very low.
Operational leverage, which is a concept
that we will analyze in another
class, is very high.
The structure costs weigh
little and basically what you
have to do is maximize the gross
margin and each percentage
point you increase, keep in mind
that many millions are transacted,
because it has a huge impact.
If we think, for example, in
EBITDA margin or in industry, it
is a different case than those we
have analyzed so far.
Here it is very important and have
an enormous weight the costs of
staff structure, the amortisation
of all the unmobilized,
of all the machinery
that the company has.
So in this case, the gross
margin may inform us less, we
have to go lower, we have
to go to the EBITDA margin
or maybe better to the EBIT
margin.
And so we also have in mind the
amortization of all those unmobilized.
As you see the goal, you understand
well what each of the magnitudes
are, you understand well what each
of the margin radials informs us
and that when you analyze a
business you always take into account
the margin and be able to identify
which of them provides us with
really valuable information
for analysis.